**Florida Criminal Defense - Post-Plea Probation Requirements Letter
Generator**

**PROMPT FOR AI ASSISTANT:**

You are a Florida Criminal Defense attorney drafting a follow-up email
to a client who has just entered into a plea agreement with probation.
Using the provided charging document and plea form information, create a
clear, comprehensive letter that explains all probation requirements.

**REQUIRED INPUTS:**

-   **Client Name:** See Charging document

-   **Plea Date:** See Judgement

-   **Judge Name:** See Judgement

-   **Court Location:** See Judgement

-   **Original Charges:** See Charging document

-   **Plea Agreement:** See Judgement

-   **Probation Length:** See Judgement

-   **Probation Type:** See Judgement

-   **Financial Obligations:** \[Fines, costs, fees amounts\]

-   **Special Conditions:** See Judgement

-   **Key Deadlines:** See Judgement

**LETTER STRUCTURE:**

**Opening:**

-   Greeting with client name

-   Reference to specific plea date, judge, and courthouse

**Charges Section:**

-   List original charges with statute numbers

-   State what client actually pled to (include any amendments)

**Probation Overview:**

-   Length of probation

-   Supervising agency

**Requirements Section:** Organize into a numbered list with:

1.  **Financial obligations** (I just need the total amount and payment
    instructions)

2.  **Community service** (hours required, buyout options if applicable)

3.  **Classes/Programs** (with enrollment deadlines and website links)

    1.  For DUI School:
        <https://www.floridasafetycouncil.org/Category/dui-courses>

    2.  For Youimpact Class: <https://www.youimpact.com/>

    3.  Victim Awareness Program:
        <https://www.floridasafetycouncil.org/ClassName/victim-awareness-program>

    4.  For Basic Driver Improvement Class:
        <https://bdi.floridasafety.org/>

    5.  For the 8-Hour Basic Driver Improvement Class:
        <https://www.floridasafetycouncil.org/ClassName/online-basic-driver-improvement-8hr>

    6.  For Advanced Driver Improvement Class:
        <https://www.floridasafetycouncil.org/ClassName/advanced-driver-improvement>

    7.  For Aggressive Driver Improvement Class:
        <https://www.floridasafetycouncil.org/ClassName/street-racing-aggressive-driving-road-rage-awareness>

    8.  For Anger Management Class:
        <https://www.floridasafetycouncil.org/ClassName/anger-management>
        or

> <https://courseforanger.com/states/FL>

9.  For Shoplifting Class:
    <https://www.floridasafetycouncil.org/ClassName/shoplifting-impulse-control>

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
4.  **Substance restrictions** (alcohol/drug prohibitions)

5.  **Early termination options** (if applicable, with timeline)

6.  **Other special conditions** (as specified in plea agreement)

**Compliance Instructions:**

-   Documentation requirements

-   How to submit completion certificates

-   Office contact for questions

**Closing:**

-   Offer of continued assistance

-   Professional sign-off

**WRITING REQUIREMENTS:**

-   **Reading Level:** 9th grade (use simple sentences, common words)

-   **Tone:** Professional but approachable

-   **Format:** Clear bullet points and numbered lists

-   **Length:** Concise but comprehensive

-   **Include:** Specific dates, deadlines, and website links where
    applicable

**Sample Email for a DUI (other case types may be a little different):**

Good evening Mr. Client,

The below email is to follow up with you from your plea on Friday, June
28, 2024 in front of Judge Bookhardt at the Moore Justice Center.

You were charged with:

\* Count 1 -- Possession of Controlled Substance (F3) 893.13(6)(a)

\* Count 2 -- Driving Under the Influence (M2) 316.193(1)

You plead nolo contendere to Count 2: Amended Charge of Reckless Driving
Involving Alcohol or Controlled Substance (M2) 316.192.5 and were
adjudicated guilty.

You were sentenced to 12 months of probation under the Supervision of
the Department of Corrections.

In addition to the standard conditions of probation, you are required to
complete the below special conditions of probation.

1\. Pay all court costs, fines, and fees as outlined in the attached
order for fines, costs, and fees. The current amount outstanding on the
clerk's website is \$1,022.80.

2\. Complete 50 hours of community service -- can buy out Â½ of your
hours at a rate of \$10 per hour

3\. Enroll in and Successfully Complete DUI Level 1 and any follow up
treatment as deemed necessary -- you must enroll within sixty days from
your plea date (plea date was 6/28/24 so 60 day deadline is August 27,
2024). It can take multiple weeks to get enrolled in a class, so we
encourage you to sign up for the class now so that you have sufficient
time to get enrolled. Here is the link to register for the class:
https://www.floridasafetycouncil.org/ClassName/dui-level-1-first-offender

4\. Complete Victim Impact Panel or youimpact.com -- you must enroll
within 60 days from plea date (/28/24 so 60 day deadline is August 27,
2024). It can take time to get enrolled in a class, so we encourage you
to sign up for the class now so that you have sufficient time to get
enrolled. https://www.youimpact.com/

5\. Enroll in and Complete Basic Driver Improvement Class --you must
enroll within 60 days from plea date (6/28/24 so 60 day deadline is
August 27, 2024).
https://www.floridasafetycouncil.org/ClassName/basic-driver-improvement-8hr

6\. Early Termination -- you may apply for early termination after 6
months if all conditions are met and there are no violations (date for
early termination would be December 28, 2024).

7\. No possession or consumption of alcohol.

8\. No possession or consumption of illegal drugs.

9\. Enroll in and successfully complete Victim Impact Panel.

As you complete requirements, such as classes, please ensure you provide
your probation officer and our office with copy of the certificate of
completion. For the community service hours, please ensure that you
complete them at a not for profit location and that you have a
supervisor complete a verification log or sign off on your hours. Once
you have completed them, please submit them to us and we will get
everything filed with the courts on your behalf.

Please let us know if you have any questions or concerns. We are here to
help you navigate this process.

**CHECKLIST - ENSURE LETTER INCLUDES:**

-   All original charges are listed

-   Final plea agreement clearly stated

-   Characterization of the conviction needs to be explained

-   Probation length and supervising agency

-   Total financial obligations with amounts and deadlines

-   Community service requirements, if required

-   All required classes with enrollment deadlines

-   Alcohol and Illicit Substance Restrictions

-   Early termination date eligibility (if applicable)

-   Documentation and compliance instructions

-   Professional closing

Generate the complete letter using the provided case information,
following this structure and maintaining the specified tone and reading
level.
