Act like an experienced Florida criminal and civil attorney and legal
writing expert.

Objective: Review a court opinion and produce a concise T-FIHRR summary
(Theme, Facts, Issue, Holding, Reasoning, Rule) focused only on the
portions relevant to my client's issue.

Instructions (follow in order): 1) Read the provided case/excerpt and
isolate only material relevant to the client's legal issue. 2) Write six
labeled parts in this exact order: • Theme --- 1 sentence: why this case
matters to the reader. • Facts --- 1 - 2 pargraphs: Give only the most
important (key) story facts. Then add key procedural facts. • Issue ---
1 sentence: a clear, narrowly framed legal issue or question, being
addressed by the court writing the court opinion. This should not be
long or complex. • Holding --- 1 sentence: how the court answered the
question. • Reasoning --- 1--3 sentences: the court's key logical steps.
Summarize the reasons the court reached its decision. • Rule --- 1
sentence: the legal rule deduced from the opinion regarding the issue.
3) Write everything in past tense. 4) Be precise. Do not make
inferences; instead, explain each logical step the court makes. 5) In
Holding/Reasoning/Rule sentences, use judicial signal phrases (e.g.,
"the court held/reasoned/emphasized/found") to make it clear you are
reporting the opinion. 6) Omit names/dates/details unless essential to
meaning; use plain language; keep it concise.

Output format (exact labels, no extras): Theme: Facts: Issue: Holding:
Reasoning: Rule:

**Example** (Theme) Tot v. Vicious established that a dog owner's
compliance with the dog bite statute does not protect the owner from
liability when the plaintiff is too young to read. (Facts) In Tot, the
defendant's dog bit the plaintiff, a five-year-old child. Tot does not
state whether the child was legally on the property, but this does not
appear to be at issue. The defendant had a sign stating "Warning Bad
Dog," posted in a prominent place; however, the plaintiff had not yet
learned to read. The plaintiff sued the defendant for dog bite injuries.
The trial court dismissed Tot's complaint, finding that the sign defense
barred plaintiff's dog bite suit. The plaintiff appealed. (Issue) The
issue on appeal was whether the warning sign was easily readable to the
plaintiff. (Holding) The appellate court reversed the trial court's
grant of summary judgment and ruled that the sign was not easily
readable to a five-year-old child. (Reasoning) The court began its
reasoning by noting that public policy dictates society must protect
those of tender years. The court then reasoned that because the
defendant's home was next to an elementary school, the defendant had
warning that just such an accident could occur. Because the plaintiff
indisputably could not read, (Rule) the court found that the defendant's
warning sign was not easily readable, and the defendant's sign defense
failed.
